As discussed, computational security definitions incorporate two relaxations
relative to information-theoretic notions of security:
1. Security is only guaranteed against efficient adversaries that run for
some feasible amount of time. This means that given enough time (or
sufficient computational resources) an attacker may be able to violate
security. If we can make the resources required to break the scheme
larger than those available to any realistic attacker, however, then for
all practical purposes the scheme is unbreakable.
2. Adversaries can potentially succeed (i.e., security can potentially fail)
with some very small probability. If we can make this probability
sufficiently small, we need not worry about it.
(As we will see, both these relaxations are necessary in order to overcome
the limitations of perfect secrecy shown in the last chapter.) To obtain a
meaningful theory, we need to precisely define what we mean by the above
relaxations. There are two general approaches for doing so: the concrete
approach and the asymptotic approach. These are described next.
3.1.1 The Concrete Approach
The concrete approach to computational security quantifies the security of
a cryptographic scheme by explicitly bounding the maximum success probability of a (randomized) adversary running for some specified amount of time
or, more precisely, investing some specified amount of computational effort.
Thus, a concrete definition of security takes the following form:
A scheme is (t, ε)-secure if any adversary running for time at
most t succeeds in breaking the scheme with probability at most ε.
(Of course, the above serves only as a general template, and for it to make
sense we need to define exactly what it means to “break” the scheme in question.) As an example, one might have a scheme with the guarantee that no
adversary running for at most 200 years using the fastest available supercomputer can succeed in breaking the scheme with probability better than 2−60
.
Or, it may be more convenient to measure running time in terms of CPU
cycles, and to construct a scheme such that no adversary using at most 280
cycles can break the scheme with probability better than 2−60
.
It is instructive to get a feel for the large values of t and the small values
of ε that are typical of modern cryptosystems.
Example 3.1
Modern private-key encryption schemes are generally assumed to give almost
optimal security in the following sense: when the key has length n—and so
the key space has size 2n—an adversary running for time t (measured in, say,